We are at an interesting juncture in the evolution of the blockchain sector.
On the one hand, estimates indicate that as of 2018 only a small percentage of internet users hold any cryptocurrency. This means that the vast majority of people have yet to discover the blockchain-based internet, which means that the ecosystem will need a safe, easy-to-use, and compliant on-ramp for cryptocurrency for the indefinite future.
On the other hand, innovation is accelerating and the space continues to grow dramatically. A few years ago, there was only one major cryptocurrency: Bitcoin. Today there are thousands of tokens and blockchain startups. Soon there will be a large variety of digital assets spanning utility tokens, asset tokens, collectibles, derivatives, decentralized financial instruments and prediction markets. There are already millions of users who have discovered the potential of blockchain and need powerful tools to trade and use the expanding number of digital assets.
This is why we have Coinbase and Coinbase Pro.
Coinbase offers consumers a trusted and easy-to-use place to buy, sell, and discover cryptocurrencies.
Coinbase is our flagship app, available at coinbase.com and on iOS and Android. It is the most trusted and easiest to use on-ramp to cryptocurrency, and the place that you can refer your friends and family members who are new to the world of crypto. We’ll introduce the most proven features here, with a real focus on education and quality.
Coinbase Pro offers experienced customers the ability to trade a wider variety of crypto assets.
By contrast, Coinbase Pro is the interface for expert traders and crypto enthusiasts. The interface includes tools for the power user: candlestick charts, depth charts, market data feeds, and the like. Coinbase Pro is the trusted and compliant environment where we will roll out more advanced features along with a wider selection of assets to offer expert traders the greatest flexibility in building and managing their crypto portfolios.
All assets listed on any of our products are subject to our digital asset framework, but some assets listed on Coinbase Pro may be more appropriate for experienced traders due to, for example, higher volatility or less volume than assets listed on Coinbase.
With these two options, both the mainstream user and the crypto expert alike have access to product experiences that are optimized for their needs.
Ultimately we want to support a broader range of digital assets, and to do so we’ll give our customers tools, ratings, and reviews to help them make informed decisions. Our goal is to maintain the trusted experience our customers have come to expect while adding the assets our customers have come to demand.
Please visit Coinbase and Coinbase Pro today to decide which one is right for you.