Today we’re announcing that Surojit Chatterjee is joining Coinbase as our new Chief Product Officer after spending 11 years at Google. Coinbase is a product-led company, and Surojit will play a critical role in making the cryptoeconomy accessible to millions more people through Coinbase’s suite of products.
Most recently, Surojit was Vice President of Product at Google, where he led Google Shopping, which helps people discover and compare products on Google. Before leading Google Shopping, Surojit was the Head of Product at Flipkart, a popular Indian e-commerce site, leading product management, user experience, product operations, and data science. Prior to Flipkart, Surojit was a founding member of Google’s mobile search ads product.
Surojit’s 11 years at Google will be valuable as we continue to scale Coinbase into a company with a lasting and meaningful impact on the world’s financial system. But his experience leading Flipkart — an exciting startup in one of the world’s fastest-growing markets — arguably provided him an even closer look at the complexity and inefficiency of global commerce. When someone has only lived, worked, or transacted in a country like the United States, it can be difficult to grasp the size of the opportunity in simplifying cross-border transactions. But it’s clear that Surojit’s insights and experiences on the front lines of global commerce make him the perfect person to lead our product organization, help us continue our pace of repeatable innovation, and bring Coinbase products to the next billion crypto users around the world.
In his own words, Surojit has witnessed first-hand how smartphones have upended the process of buying goods and services around the world, and he sees how “cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology can help open up the financial system for everyone by growing cross-border commerce, lowering transaction costs, providing higher security and by helping individuals have more control over their financial future.”
I look forward to working alongside Surojit to make cryptocurrency even more accessible in 2020 and beyond.