Today we’re thrilled to announce that Asiff Hirji is joining Coinbase as our President & Chief Operating Officer. Asiff joins us from one of our venture capital partners, Andreessen Horowitz, where he focused on accelerating growth at a number of portfolio companies. We are incredibly excited to have him join Coinbase full time to help us on our mission towards creating an open financial system.
Before Andreessen Horowitz, Asiff:
“Coinbase is moving into an exciting phase of our journey. Asiff’s knowledge of traditional financial services, as well as his deep technical expertise, makes him the perfect person to guide our operations as we grow into new markets and products,” said Brian Armstrong, CEO and Co-founder of Coinbase.
Asiff brings to Coinbase a truly unique mix of skills and experience. He has significant experience running large investment platforms and brokerages. Asiff’s mix of technical skill, business knowledge and corporate growth experience is truly unique, and exactly what Coinbase needs as we solidify our position as the leading digital currency company. His experience will be invaluable as interest from large financial institutions continues to increase and as we expand into new markets and products such as Coinbase Custody.
“Asiff is an elite operator, with fantastic domain expertise from Ameritrade, and a deep technical background,” said Ben Horowitz, General Partner, Andreessen Horowitz. “For these reasons, we are absolutely thrilled that he is joining Coinbase. He is the perfect fit.”
And from Asiff himself:
“Coinbase is uniquely positioned like no other company to capitalize on the burgeoning crypto-economy. Its breadth of offerings, global footprint and unique capabilities mean that it will continue to be the first place that retail and institutional investors look when they invest in cryptocurrencies. I’m very excited to be a part of the company and look forward to helping realize its full potential.” said Asiff Hirji, President & Chief Operating Officer of Coinbase.