From the time it was founded seven years ago, Coinbase has been a leading advocate for the adoption of cryptocurrency. We’ve engaged proactively with regulators as we built products and services that allow people to buy, sell and use cryptocurrency all over the world. In recent years, the industry expanded faster than we could have imagined with an explosion in customer demand and entrepreneurial activity pushing the capabilities of the ecosystem forward. As this trend continues, it is more important than ever that we contribute to a public policy and regulatory environment that fosters innovation while protecting investors.
That is why I’m thrilled to welcome Brian Brooks as the new Chief Legal Officer for Coinbase. His arrival is part of our effort to expand our legal, compliance and government affairs capabilities as we head into this next chapter for the company and the cryptocurrency industry as a whole.
Brian most recently served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Fannie Mae, the nation’s largest financial institution. He led the company’s 200-person legal department and government relations group, and acted as a senior advisor to the CEO and Board of Directors. Prior to Fannie Mae, Brian led the legal department at OneWest Bank, N.A., a regional depository institution that he helped sell to CIT Group. Brian also played a key role in managing the bank’s senior regulatory relationships.
Brian joined OneWest in 2011 from O’Melveny & Myers LLP, where he served as managing partner of the firm’s 150-lawyer Washington, D.C. office; chair of the firm’s 40-lawyer national Financial Services Practice Group; and a member of the firm’s three-partner executive committee. At O’Melveny, Brian was involved in many of the most important financial services policy issues of the past decade, including representing former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and other clients before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.
Mike Lempres successfully led our legal function through an important chapter of the company’s history. He will now focus on scaling the company’s government affairs program, which includes Coinbase as a founding member of the Blockchain Association and managing the Coinbase Political Action Committee.
We’d like to thank Mike for his leadership and welcome Brian to the team!