At Coinbase, our mission is to create an open financial system for the world. We believe that open protocols for money will create more innovation, economic freedom, and equality of opportunity in the world, just like the internet did for publishing information.
However, an open financial system is difficult to get started because it requires a network effect. Every transaction requires both a sender and recipient who are willing to use the new system.
To overcome this, our strategy is to draw new users into the digital currency space via an initial use case (investment, or currency speculation) that does not require a network effect. This will create the critical mass of people required for the network effect to develop.
Here are the steps:
Our go to market strategy is different for each phase.
In step one, we attract new users through channels such as referral programs, SEO, and adding easy to use payment methods. With 1M monthly active users or more, we can consider a sufficient critical mass to exist for the later phases.
In step two, we will onboard new institutional traders largely through business development and sales. Our definition of critical mass here is approximately the daily trading volume of ten large publicly traded companies, or $5B in daily trading volume.
Step three is once again a consumer product, and we will drive adoption through a two pronged approach. The first part will be onboarding consumers who are already invested in digital currency from step one, as our initial user base. They will evangelize the product because it has the potential to make their digital currency investments go up in value. The second part will be drawing in new users to the payment network. These will be people with the greatest pain point, who are underserved by the current financial system (such as in developing countries). Our target is to reach 100M monthly transacting users in this step.
In step four, each app or company will have it’s own go to market strategy, ranging from traditional consumer strategies to b2b strategies, driving the ecosystem to 1B monthly transacting users and beyond.
In conclusion, the above steps outline our strategy for accelerating the world’s shift to an open financial system. When we’re successful, it will accelerate the pace of innovation in the world, create more economic freedom, and provide financial services to billions of underserved people.
If this mission is exciting for you, please send us a note.